An editorial in memoriam

[]{#_gjdgxs .anchor}Gil Williamson began *Mythaxis* in 2008 with the
intention of delivering a simple, fiction-focused genre magazine without
the usual trappings of the web -- minimal advertising, if any at all,
and as little visual clutter as possible to distract from the stories he
chose to publish. Ten years later, he released the 21^st^ issue on the
anniversary of the first. Under his editorial guidance, *Mythaxis*
featured one hundred and sixty-five original stories, six classic
reprints of old masters, and a dozen cartoons or short comic strips.
Some of those original pieces also represented the first publication of
their authors, mine included.

\[Gil and Beryl pics\]

Sadly, in the summer of 2019 and a little over a year after that
anniversary issue, Gil passed away following a period of illness. To say
that he lived a full life would be an almost criminal understatement. He
studied astrophysics at Edinburgh, but instead went on to enjoy a long
professional career in the world of computing. With his wife Beryl, he
created a software company named Amazon Systems (long before any upstart
global behemoth began trading under a similar banner) which delved into
fields as diverse as medicine, banking, security, word processing, and
computer games. *Mythaxis* itself is published via software written by
its editor.

He was a polyglot of European language, on one occasion translating the
user manual of a medical computing system developed by Beryl from
Swedish to Danish. He also spoke Malay, a skill no doubt of passing use
when he navigated the Limbang river between Malaysia and Brunai in a
dug-out canoe. As well as an amateur small-vessel sailor he was a racing
enthusiast, as can be seen below, so crossing Istanbul during rush hour
at the wheel of someone else's car likely did little to raise his heart
rate.

\[Gil sports pics\]

A life rich with experience, yes, but perhaps most of all Gil was
modest, so understand that this shameful act of praise is committed only
out of a sense of admiration and affection, one I'm sure is shared by
far more people than those who knew him as their editor. I first met Gil
as a member of the long-running book-lovers forum *Palimpsest*, where
his passion for science fiction, in particular that of William Gibson
and Iain M. Banks, made his a voice I always watched out for.

His championing of Patrick O'Brien's epic *Aubrey & Maturin* sequence,
the most famous of course being "Master and Commander", introduced me to
a series of books I now cherish. And in a different way I also cherish
*Mythaxis*, now most of all as a legacy to the man who created it. When
illness and the demands of operating the magazine became incompatible,
Gil asked if I would take over editing duties, and I was proud to have
been given that trust. It gives me great pleasure to be able to continue
what Gil started, my only regret is not being able to do so while he was
still with us.

So, our salute to Gil Williamson is this: eight stories by past
contributors we hope you will enjoy, and which we hope he would have
too. And we will keep on saluting. *Mythaxis* will persist in his
mission, to seek out great speculative writing by authors new and old
and let it distract you from the world, just for a little while.

\~ Andrew Leon Hudson

Mythaxis editor
