**His Turn to Remember**

John A. Frochio

\-

*Next up, flash fiction in a classic-style, treating one of the
perennial tropes (or perhaps that should be "treasures") of the genre.
True, there is no glass jar here, but there have been other notable
containers for our remains across the years of science fiction*\...

\-

During his daily walk through the vast and empty halls of the Masters'
mausoleum, Watchman Seven stopped to remember. The front panel of his
pure white metallic body---about heart level in a human frame---popped
open. He extracted a small handheld device, still as shiny and new as he
first remembered it. The panel closed with a sharp snapping sound and
his body resealed itself..

He keyed in his password.

Seven stood completely motionless, transfixed by the images displayed on
the gift the Masters had provided long ago. He clutched it tightly as
memories flashed across the tiny monitor. This was the only place they
had existed since the day of his rebirth, when his brain was transferred
to this cold metallic android body. His mind had been unceremoniously
cleansed of everything.

Conscious of the exact time, Seven knew he had seconds enough before he
was required at his watch station.

A very long time ago, Seven and the other eleven android watchmen were
commissioned to guard and protect the sleeping Masters, who by design
would not be awakened for many centuries. Their bodies were built from
the strongest materials and each was installed with enough weaponry to
quash an army of warriors or an assault of marauding beasts.

They were the guardians of the Masters.

Before the Masters went to sleep, they gave him this memento, a tiny
morsel extracted from his memories, fifteen minutes of a video album
that he could view whenever he wanted or needed to remember. He used to
remember every day. Now only on occasion.

Today he wanted to remember.

He watched...

A beautiful wife. Whose wife? His? Yes.

Two small children. Were they his children? Of course.

Laughter. They were all happy. He remembered happiness and laughter.

Singing. Not the most beautiful harmonies, certainly, but beautiful to
him. Wasn\'t beauty a personal thing?

Was that him playing with the children? Was that what he had looked like
in his previous life? He always wondered.

And then, before it was over, one small kiss on the cheek from his wife.
Sometimes he imagined how it must have felt. Warm, soft, moist. What
other feelings? He struggled with what he must have experienced. Back
then, so long ago.

Of course, there was much missing. These were only fragments, a tiny
sliver of his past. He wondered about the events---the missing
pieces---that led up to his new life within this cold, hard skin. His
new life, without feeling, without even one small kiss. Maybe his
Masters did not want him to remember those events. Those would certainly
be too painful to watch over and over again.

Did the Masters have compassion?

The time was near to begin his watch. He proceeded toward his station.
Watchman Nine was standing in position, looking much like Seven, facing
outward toward the gray, dead world beyond their strong walls, where any
enemy might be lurking, planning an imminent attack.

Nine turned to him as he approached, and stepped aside so Seven could
take his position.

As Nine passed him on his way back to his recharging station, Seven
handed him the device.

It was his turn to remember.

The End
